Mic check, mic check, one, two. Can you hear me? Can you
hear me?
Am I coming through the speakers?
Ahh. Drinking on a nice cup of coffee, I just had lunch, my
friend. I hope you're doing well. This is the Life in English podcast.
I am Tony Kaizen and I just wanted to put
one little bit of information on your brain today for you to
think about. Recently, I've been making a real effort to
limit my screen time. That came out weird- limit my screen
time. And just in case you don't know, screen time is the
amount of time you spend looking at a screen. So it's your
cell phones, your computers, your TV, etc. And on my phone
and computer, I get a weekly report from this app called
Screen Time and it tells me you spent an average of this
many hours per day looking at a screen and you spent an
average of this much time looking at this website or on this
app, etc. And it got to the point where it was like
thirteen, fifteen, sixteen hours a day sometimes and I'm
just like, "Yo, this, this is not sustainable." First of
all, it's not healthy. And not only that, but large amounts
of time are being spent on shit that really isn't
productive. I don't need to be looking at a screen during
large amounts of my day because I'm not actually getting
something done. So I was like, "Man, this, I gotta, you
know, I wanna do this long term. I'm still relatively young
and I got a lot of screen time left in me." So I want to
limit that shit because I need my eyes, bro. And it's about
mental health, I'll get to that in a second but anyway, I'm
just talking about my reason for limiting my screen time. I
wanna do it in a sustainable way. I wanna work from home or
online in a sustainable way. And taking care of my health is
really important part of that, alright? So I've been trying
to limit the time. And not only that, I've been, you know,
off and on trying to get back into the routine of meditating
a little bit. I try to do it when I wake up in the morning
and then during a break period in the afternoon and also in
the evening where I just sit down and do nothing for like
seven to ten minutes. It's a lot harder than it sounds, but
I've been trying to be disciplined to do it every day. Those
two things just like limiting my screen time and, and
meditating one to three times a day has really, really
helped, uh, my physical and mental health, you know? Cause
when we talk about screen time, I'm also talking about
social media consumption, because for a lot of us, that's
what we're doing. We're not on our phones trying to get
stuff done. We're on our phones like trying to escape
boredom or emptiness or whatever negative feelings and
emotions we tend to feel, we can just pull out our phone and
ignore those feelings and be distracted by a bunch of random
shit, you know? And I've noticed once I've stopped or since
I've stopped doing that compulsively and just choosing to
only pull out my phone when I'm trying to get something done
or actually contact someone, only get on my computer when
I'm trying to accomplish a task, like it's done a lot.
It's like made a huge change --I shouldn't exaggerate-- I'm
starting to see significant changes in my ability to focus
for long periods of time. My, uh, my emotional stability,
like my... the clarity of my thinking, you know what I mean,
my productivity, everything just increases because I'm not
just constantly distracted by nonsense, you know what I
mean? Even useful information like there's a time and place
for everything, right? And I don't need to just be consuming
a bunch of information all the time. We have to put it to
work, we have to like, do shit. So at some point you got to
stop consuming and start producing, you know what I mean?
And, um, since I focused more on, on that balance of like
consuming less and producing more, be more productive, I've
seen like uh, a really positive impact on just my daily
life, which allows me to be more productive, get more done,
I'm happier because I'm more productive and get more shit
done and I'm more focused. And, uh, what I also noticed
driving down the street the other day is just like almost
the entire day I hadn't touched my phone, only to answer
messages, uh, maybe upload a video or, or listen to some
music or a podcast or something. But I wasn't really looking
at my phone pretty much the entire day. And it just, I don't
know, I was driving down the street and it just dawned on
me. All of a sudden I was like, "Man, it's been a long time
since I've actually been notified of what's happening
somewhere else in the world.", like talk to somebody who let
me know what was going on in their part of the world or
watched a video on social media, seeing something happen
somewhere else, like the entire day, it was just what was
happening here in the present moment, like where I was at
the time. That was it.
And it was like this weird moment where I realized how happy
I was because of that. It was just like bliss. And man, you
know, it's almost like -- not as if there were no problems
in the world but-- in that moment there were no problems, I
was just driving down the street and that's all that really
matters. I don't need to know what's happening all around
the world all the time like I don't give a shit. I really
don't. And that's not to say that, "Oh, I want bad things to
be happening to people and I want war to exist..." like
obviously, I'm not saying that. I'm just saying if I'm being
honest with myself and I'm being honest with you, I don't
give a shit what's happening 3000 miles from here right now.
I don't care. You know what I care about? This cup of coffee
in my hand and what I got to say to you, that's what I care
about right now. That's all that's, uh, on my mind.
That's all that matters. Because that's all I can control.
So that's all I need to focus on. Why would, I mean, why do
I need to know? Why do I need to know? Or, you know, if I do
need to know, like set aside a particular time in my day for
that, I'm gonna get on my phone, on my computer and consume
current events, media about current events so I can update
myself and know what's going on in the world. But just all
day? All day? It's not healthy, bro.
Think about it with any other mind-altering substance
because social media, the Internet that form, that form of
consumption is a mind altering substance. We have to
consider it as such, or I think we should. And if you think
about any other mind altering substance, whether it's
alcohol, marijuana, cocaine, take your pick, anything like
that. Maybe not marijuana, that's a different category.
Let's use alcohol. Let's use alcohol. Imagine you like to
drink on the weekends, you have a little bit of fun. You
might crack open a bottle of wine when the kids are asleep,
go on some Netflix, you feel me? Snuggle up on the couch,
take a sip of the wine, right? Or you might like to party
hard. We're getting fucked up, right? Shots of vodka and
fucking tequila. Shot, shot, shot. You like to drink. You
like to get turnt up and have a good time and party,
whatever. You're not gonna do that all day, every day,
right? Imagine if you took a shot of liquor when you woke
up, a shot of liquor before you left the house. A shot of
liquor when you got off the train. A shot of liquor before
you enter work. A shot of liquor on your lunch break.
Another shot on the train ride home. Another shot as soon as
you get home. Another shot while you're cooking dinner.
Another shot while you're hanging out with the kids...
You're fucking alcoholic.
You need help, bro. It is not healthy or normal to just be
getting fucked up like that all day, every day. It's not
good. And eventually one shot won't be enough. Then you'll
need three shots, then six shots, then twelve shots just to
reach that same level that you're accustomed to being at. We
know how addiction works. Think about that. But just one
more video. Just one more tweet, right?
Just one more post. All you got to do is swipe up, right?
One video is not enough, now you need six or seven. Now you
need thirteen. Now you need fifty. Before you know it, three
and a half hours of your day were spent scrolling and you
can't remember three of the videos you watched. Like, bro,
you got a problem. That's a problem. Because then you're
going to turn around and say, "Fuck, man, where did the time
go? Goddamn, that's... what? It's what year? It's what day?
It's what month? It's what time? Where the fuck did the time
go?" You just gave it all away, bro. So anyway, anyway,
I guess I don't even know if I've arrived at a point. I'm
just trying to share something I've been thinking about
lately that I really think we should all think about from
time to time, which is we don't need to just be constantly
consuming information all the time, allowing ourselves to be
distracted, fucking choosing to distract ourselves from the
present moment just because it's not exactly the way we
would like it to be. Like where? Your time is never coming
back, bro. And this is coming from somebody who's wasted
years of his life on fucking nonsense. Years of his life.
I'm sure you have too. We all have. And I'm just here to put
this on your brain one more time today. Like, stop and think
about it just one more time. Bruh,can you really afford to
walk through life just constantly distracted by shit that
doesn't even matter? Can you really afford to ignore the
shit that really needs attention in your life? Developing
skills, making connections, learning how to communicate,
right? I could...I mean, there's a list of stuff you know
you need to do bro. Just...just...
Just think about it for 30 days, man. Just give it a try.
Meditate twice a day and only pull out your phone if you
need to get something done. Only look at a screen if you're
trying to get something done. And I guarantee you will see
how much fucking free time you have on your hands. I
guarantee it, bro. And then you can stop and ask yourself,
"Well, damn, what should I do with all this fucking time?"
That'll be your new problem. "How do I occupy all this time
now that I'm not wasting it?" And the good news is the
answer to that question is whatever the fuck you want, bro.
Take your pick. But the point is, you got the time to do it
now that you're not distracted or running away from boredom,
sadness, emptiness, yourself, whatever it may be, bro.
I don't know. Whatever it may be. I'm just saying think
about it, bro for the next 30 days. Long day at work, you
get home, kiss the kids, kiss the wife or your husband,
whatever. If you...If you live by yourself, get home, hug
your cats, see your dogs, whatever you do, resist the urge
to pick up the phone. Resist the urge to turn on the screen
and just, just think. What could you do to make better use
of your time, man? The world's changing fast, bro. And, uh,
I don't know, man. You just stay in the same place doing the
same shit every day, at some point, I just gotta believe
it's gonna come back to bite you. You know, it's gonna catch
up with you at some point. Anyway, this isn't a fucking
intervention or some goddamn motivational speech or
something like that. I just wanted to share with you
something that's definitely having a positive impact on my
daily experience and thus the rest of my life, you know, um,
and hopefully you take some time to think about it yourself,
man. If you want to talk more or in more detail about this,
hit me up on Discord, man. I don't know if everyone
listening knows this, but you can join the Discord server.
You don't have to pay any money. You don't have to fucking
do anything but create an account. Join the community, come
talk with us, make some friends, you know what I'm saying?
And, uh, live your life in English, my friend. But I'mma get
out of here, man. I just wanted to leave that on your
brains. Hopefully you enjoyed this episode and you got a
couple of things to think about. This is Life in English. I
am your host, Tony Kaizen, and I'll talk to you soon. Peace!